As we prepare to mark 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence (GBV), cases of sexual harassment against women in the workplace and public spaces continue unabated. Female workers are forced to work in frightening, hostile or humiliating environments and experience various unsolicited forms of sexual conduct. Of major concern is that these obscene abuses of women are taking place inside Government institutions and state-owned enterprises (SOEs). To be a woman in this country is to live under the relentless threat of violence that has been deeply engrained in institutions across South Africa. Below is a summary of a select number of state organizations where cases of sexual harassment were reported in 2019:  Sexual harassment against women in the armed forces is so rampant that in August last year the SANDF held a conference at Air Force base in Swartkop to deal with reports of sexual assaults in barracks and elsewhere.  With trains that are always overcrowded, women fall prey to sexual predators who grope them on their commute. Women always complain that there is no mechanism in place or someone to report it to. These are but a few examples of the rampant culture of sexual misconduct that have seeped into State institutions. Moreover, the seeming lack of accountability and reluctance to hold alleged perpetrators to account is chilling. We need urgent, clear and decisive action that goes further than jailing perpetrators and that addresses the root causes of the social and moral collapse. We also need strong leadership both in government as well as in the form of a Parliament that makes effective legislative decisions. The Democratic Alliance (DA), therefore, intends to introduce a private member’s bill that will strengthen the powers granted to courts and the SAPS to provide essential safeguards and make sure that the rights of the society’s most vulnerable are protected. Our private member’s bill will address legislative gaps and shortfalls; and will have due regard to innovative measures introduced in other countries, where such measures have a proven track record of success and can be adapted for the South African context. Our key proposals consist of: We believe that the government has shown inaction for too long and that public sentiment on the issue has now reached a boiling point. The DA also calls upon Government to lead by example by investigating and taking action on sexual misconduct claims which arise within Departments and SOEs. President Cyril Ramaphosa has promised an Emergency Action Plan meant to deal with the scourge of GBV. The DA calls that this is broadened to pay particular focus on the women in government institutions such as the SANDF. We also call for a more coordinated approach by Government institutions that will put an end to GBV in their places of work. This approach should not simply be workshops and leaflets. But it should ensure that abusers and rapists know that they will be caught, arrested and face the consequences of their harrowing acts against women. South African women have voiced their fears, concerns, and anger in protests, marches, and memorial services across the country. To ignore the urgency of these calls would be an indictment on the National Government. Ultimately, the issue of GBV cannot and will not be fixed only to a 16-day awareness campaign. The developments of the past two months are proof that the only way we can ensure any meaningful change in our society is a 365 day approach to activism against GBV.