The following statement was delivered today by DA Leader, Mmusi Maimane, at a press briefing in Parliament, Cape Town. Maimane was joined by DA Chief Whip, John Steenhuisen, DA Deputy Chief Whip, Jacques Julius and DA National Spokesperson, Solly Malatsi. Today, I am proud to announce the DA’s new Shadow Cabinet. This diverse group of MPs – comprising of talented South Africans from all walks of life – will hold national government accountable for the exercise of their powers, while putting forward fresh ideas and credible alternatives to the plans and policies of national government. The people of South Africa re-elected the DA as the country’s Official Opposition in this 6thParliament, and we do not take this privilege and responsibility for granted. We will work each and every day to ensure that this Parliament works for the people. We will do so by committing to: Our work will focus on an Agenda for Reform. The most pressing of these is the need for urgent economic reform. In this light, we will use Parliament to table our Jobs Bill and Cheaper Energy Bill, focus on city-led economic growth, fight for labour legislation reform, oppose any changes to the Reserve Bank independence and mandate, propose alternatives to the current State Owned Entity (SOE) ownership framework, propose alternatives to the current Mining Charter, and oppose threats to the economy and fiscus such as NHI and expropriation of property and land without compensation. It is with this that I present to you the DA’s Shadow Cabinet: This Shadow Cabinet will officially meet every fortnight. The purpose of these meetings will be to discuss the upcoming legislative agenda; to deliberate on new policies, debates, and motions; and to table any other matters. I am confident that our Shadow Cabinet possesses the requisite skills, experience and expertise to bring forward innovative alternatives to move our country forward. Comprising of youth and experience, academics and activists, orators and operators – I am proud to lead this Shadow Cabinet. We are ready to roll up our sleeves and get to work in furthering the cause of democracy and fighting for a future South Africa that belongs to all.