The Democratic Alliance (DA) calls on the Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA), Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, to urgently intervene in the undemocratic and disturbing recurring events in the eThekwini Municipality . The municipality has become engulfed in chaos, following the extension of contracts to companies which are closely linked to Mayor Zandile Gumede, who has been placed on ‘special leave’, and Councillor Mondli Mthembu, who have been charged with fraud and corruption amounting to over R200 million. The DA in KwaZulu-Natal has already written to the Public Protector’s office to alert the Chapter 9 body of the extension of these dubious contracts. It is now up to national government to ensure the effective functioning of the eThekwini Municipality, and that services to the people of eThekwini continues unhindered. Additionally, Auditor-General (AG) Kimi Makwetu stated yesterday that the AG’s leadership had to take the decision to suspend the audit process for the eThekwini Municipality, due to intimidation and threats. SAPS had to escort audit staff to the metro, while the municipality’s leadership had to intervene to restore calm and safety to enable the uninterrupted resumption of audit work. The audit findings concluded that eThekwini, along with the uThukela District, uMzinyathi District, uMkhanyakude District and Ugu District municipalities collectively accounted for R1.76 billion of the total disclosed irregular expenditure amount. Mayor Gumede’s dodgy dealings has led to the collapse of the municipality and for thuggery to become the order of the day. At Thursday’s Council sitting, the Speaker announced that some Councillors’ water bottles were compromised, and may have contained paraffin. We can rule this out as being a targeted attempt at poisoning members of the Council. Furthermore, Councillors who support Zandile Gumede confronted the City Manager, Sipho Nzuza, who has turned state witness against the Mayor. Several Councillors had to be physically restrained and were seen pushing and shoving each other as Nzuza’s security surrounded him to protect him. The DA will not allow the ANC to wage political battles at the expense of the people of eThekwini. We are ready to work and put the people first.