On 9 August 1956, 20,000 fearless South African women from all walks life took to the streets of Pretoria to send a message to the apartheid regime – now that you’ve struck a woman, you have struck a rock. This day in history marked a turning point in the struggle for freedom and democracy. It showcased the strength and resilience of South African women. Indeed, women have played a remarkable role in South Africa’s history, yet sadly, 25 years since the dawn of democracy, South African women are still suffering. For years, women have been subjected to sexual exploitation by powerful men in return for jobs, school marks and houses. From Government Departments and entities, institutions of learning and private organisations, vulnerable women in their pursuit for economic freedom continue to be subjected to sexual abuse by those in positions of authority. To this day, in modern South Africa, women are still on their own, faced with the painful reality of being forced to give in to the continuous advances of their perpetrators or face being victimised. Many of these women refuse to come forward and report transgressions fearing for their lives and those of their families. It is exactly for these countless, voiceless women the Democratic Alliance Women’s Network (DAWN), we will continue to fight. Women can no longer continue to be made sexual objects by men who abuse their positions for sexual gratification. Enough is enough. This is not what the women of 1956 marched for. During our travels throughout the country and engagements with women across provinces, we have come heard of many incidents of vulnerable and struggling women who have had to use their bodies as collateral to get jobs and houses and of young girls are abused by their teachers, in return for better school marks. In Komani, formerly known as Queenstown, DAWN came across 3 young women who had to sleep with officials from the Enoch Mgijima Local Municipality to receive RDP houses. After our engagements with these women and obtaining all the necessary information, we made submissions to the Commission for Gender Equality calling for an investigation into these allegations. We are delighted that the Commission has now confirmed that these allegations will be investigated, and we will continuously monitor the progress of this investigation to ensure that justice for the 3 young women, and those who might not have the courage to come forward, is realised. However, many other cases continue to go unnoticed and unprobed. These cases are deliberately ignored or the alleged perpetrators are simply easily let go. This cannot continue any longer. Justice must be served. During this Women’s Month, DAWN will travel to every corner of the country calling on women to take a stand against this vile, inhumane treatment and sexual exploitation. DAWN will, therefore, petition the Commission for Gender Equality to look at the following cases that have either been swept under the rug or where investigations have either stalled or never took place: 1. Enoch Mgijima Municipality EPWP sex-for-jobs and sex-for-houses scandals 2. Bheki Mlangeni District Hospital sex-for-jobs scandal 3. Heineken sex-for-shifts scandal – Sedibeng Brewery 4. SADTU cash and sex-for-jobs 5. Gugu Ncube vs Unisa investigation 6. Rob Ferreira Hospital sex-for-jobs scandal 7. University of Fort Hare sex scandal We will also request that the Commission engages with the survivors of the SABC sex scandal which the Commission had investigated and released a report on, and in which most of the alleged perpetrators were found not guilty. The survivors have raised their objections on the outcome of the investigation, and DAWN, stands with them and call for justice to be served. Government must also play its role. The DA will never waver in holding government to account for its failure in protecting women and women’s rights. Where we govern, we will ensure we create safe spaces for women and young girls. Where we are in opposition, we will ensure that the incumbent takes action in protecting women. South Africa has failed its women for too long. This is evident in the high numbers of unspeakable sexual offences, domestic violence, and incidents of femicide that we hear of daily. Young girls have become victims of horrendous sexual violence, wives and daughters are the victims of horrific domestic abuse, and lesbian and transgender women have too often been the victims of heinous acts of violence. The violence against our women must stop. Action is needed to stop and prevent the abuse of women and to keep their perpetrators behind bars. We need an honest and professional police who take gender-based violence and domestic violence seriously, and investigate it thoroughly. Sadly, that is not the case today. In honouring the brave women of 1956, we must remind ourselves that the work they started is not yet done. We all, men and women, have a collective responsibility to forward women’s rights and safety. Women have been failed too many times by the system and society. We do not feel safe at home, work or places of learning. We are now saying enough is enough. Hands off South Africa’s women, hands off!