Please find attached a soundbite in English by Andrew Whitfield, MP, and a soundbite in Afrikaans by Georgina Faldtman Murder has increased by 160% in the Algoa Park policing sector, yet the South African Police Service (SAPS) in the area is still cripplingly understaffed and under-resourced. This is according to the latest available crime statistics. Today I was joined by DA Federal Chairperson, Athol Trollip, DA Women’s Network Eastern Cape Provincial Chairperson, Georgina Faldtman, and local residents in taking part in a crime march in Missionvale. (pictures attached here, here and here). We also handed over a petition and memorandum to the Station Commander of the Algoa Park Police Station. (memorandum attached).   The community of Missionvale often bears the brunt of the escalating murder rate due to a shortage of vehicles and officials and therefore a lack of visible policing in this area. It is imperative that the SAPS make use of reservists to free up the frontline officers at the Algoa Park Police Station. This will make more officers available to ensure greater visible policing. This lack of visible policing also has an impact on the alarming increase in sexual offences in the area. When comparing the 2016/17 crime statistics to the 2017/18 statistics sexual offences increased by 12,1% – from 58 to 65 reported cases. It is important to note that sexual assault (55,6%) and contact sexual offences (33,3%) both increased substantially. While sexual offences are on the rise in Algoa Park and Missionvale, statistics show that there are no rape kits available at the Algoa Park Police Station. This causes increased trauma to rape victims, as they have to be transported to stations where these kits are available. There are only 1,457 adult rape kits and 2,642 child rape kits available in the Eastern Cape. There should be at least 20,000 of these in stock in the province at all times. The Algoa Park Police Station shortages of officials and vehicles has led to slow response times to call-outs in Missionvale. There has also been an increase in drug dens and drug related crimes in the area. I will be taking the plight of the people of Algoa Park and Missionvale to Parliament, and request an intervention from the Minister of Police, Bheki Cele. A lack of officers severely hinders SAPS’s crime¬fighting efforts, especially relating to stations such as Algoa Park which is mandated to cover huge areas such as Missionvale. Communities like Missionvale and Algoa Park, deserve an honest and professional police service which is well-trained, well-funded, well-resourced and fully capacitated – run by a capable provincial government, as per DA policy.