The Democratic Alliance has taken note of National Government’s seeming refusal to release state-owned land to the Western Cape Provincial Government (WCPG) for housing development. Over the past few weeks there have been a number of false reports of DA governments stalling social housing in the province. This is simply untrue, as it is in fact National Government that is hampering social housing in the province. In response to a DA Parliamentary question, Public Works and Infrastructure Minister, Patricia De Lille, revealed that over the past three years the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure lost over 56 land parcels (more than 6 300 hectares) of otherwise developable land to illegal land invasions. The Department has been sitting on prime land for so long, that it is being invaded and costing millions to maintain and yet still refuse to release this to the Western Cape for development. The Western Cape Human Settlements Department has for years called on the failing ANC government to release five pieces of well-located land in Cape Town, namely Denel, Ysterplaat, Culemborg, Youngsfield and Wingfield. Yet, despite the fact that these land parcels are estimated to yield up to 93 000 housing opportunities, the Human Settlements Minister, Lindiwe Sisulu, revealed in a Parliamentary question that none of the land parcels have been redistributed. The DA has therefore submitted further Parliamentary questions to the Minister of Public Works to ascertain whether her department will release these well-located land parcels for social housing development in the Western Cape. The DA asked whether the Department transfer the land tracks to the Western Cape Governent and by what date the Department intend to release this land? DA governments know the injustices which resulted in whole communities being forcibly removed from their homes to the outskirts of economic activity – and they are working tirelessly to ensure that these communities move closer to the City and are able to have equal access to transport and economic opportunities.