The Democratic Alliance Women’s Network (DAWN) is gravely concerned by the scourge of violence that has been taking place in South Africa, particularly violence against women and children, which has left South Africa and the world in a state of understandable anger and mourning. South Africans are still bewildered and angry about the senseless slaughtering of Janika Mallo, Meghan Creme, Leighandre “Baby Lee” Jegels, Jesse Hess and Uyinene Mrwetyana to mention but a few. DAWN Federal Leader, Dr Nomafrench Mbombo has met with Janika’s Family to give them support during this trying time. The loss suffered by their families and friends – has been felt by many, particularly women, throughout the country and world, as messages of support and condolences continue to pour in. Video clips showing the growing anger of the people against perpetrators of gender-based violence went viral on social media on Tuesday night.  They show community members burning down a house, located in Khayelitsha, allegedly belonging to the man accused of raping and murdering Uyinene Mrwetyana. Government and its agencies must be seen to be taking real decisive action and must urgently intervene by addressing the scourge of violent acts against women, and children because unless swift action is taken, these young women won’t be the last victims of such crimes. The DA has called for the establishment a special task team to review the systems and processes of law enforcement officials and agencies, the SAPS, and the criminal justice system, with a focus on how to better predict and prevent violent crimes against women. Until there is leadership from the President and government who we have signed a social contract with, citizens will continue to take matters into their own hands. This is what happens when the government elected to lead and act boldly during difficult times fails to act. We strongly believe that there is no place, other than jail, for rapists and criminals. As the DA Women’s Network we stand in solidarity with the millions of people, both here and abroad, calling for leadership. Today DAWN’s Federal Leader, Nomafrench Mbombo will be at the Lookout Hill, Khayelitsha where Uyinene’s body was discovered to memorialize her death and this will also serve as a send-off of her relatives who will be leaving for Uyinene’s funeral in Eastern Cape. She will be joined by other mothers and women. Soon after that she will  join a church service at Luzuko still in Khayelitsha. DAWN is committed in advancing women’s rights and in fighting for a society where women must thrive and we stand in solidarity with the millions of people, both here and abroad, calling for decisive leadership. We must also address socio-economic challenges such as the vast inequality, joblessness, and economic exclusion, which women and young people bear the brunt of. If we do not fix these economic imbalances, we will not fix our broken society. We are calling for calm during this period and for law enforcement agencies to act boldly in the face of growing criminal behaviour which leaves women and children without hope and the safety they are constitutionally entitled to. Furthermore, we plead with law enforcement authorities to respect the rights of peaceful protestors.