The Democratic Alliance (DA) calls for a wide-ranging and comprehensive Ministerial Commission on Violence and Trauma on University and College Campuses following the escalating levels of violence across campuses which have reached pathological proportions. In recent months we have seen murders, rapes, suicides and examples of collective violence in places throughout the country, many of them associated with violent student protests. Amongst others, these include: Suicides appear to have increased too, with reports of: Violent protests have by no means come to an end with the arrival of fee free Higher Education for the poor, and recent reports include: Furthermore, gender based violence on campuses is now so widespread and serious that it has led the Ministry to address it specifically. There are many other examples which together paint a picture of Universities as increasingly brutal, violent and unpleasant places to study and work. This reflects the general brutality of our society today. Importantly it works against the principle upon which Universities throughout the world operate – that they should be places of peaceful, contemplative learning and research. Minister Blade Nzimande has, together with Vice Chancellors and others, agreed that this matter should be looked into, and Vice Chancellors have said they will  ”gather material” on the issue.  The Minister has promised to accelerate the building of proper residences for students to protect them from the violent communities in which they often live. They are addressing gender based violence separately. However this is not enough. The approach is piecemeal and ad hoc. A much more integrated and systematic approach needs to be adopted. It is for this reason that the DA proposes the setting up of a formal, properly constituted Ministerial Commission on Violence and Trauma on University and College Campuses which will look at, amongst other things: Such a Commission would provide ample material and guidance to the Minister and to heads of institutions as to how best to reconfigure their campuses so as to reduce violence and encourage peaceful learning in our very troubled Universities and Colleges.