The Democratic Alliance (DA) has written to President Cyril Ramaphosa to impress upon him the need for the Justice, Crime Prevention and Security (JCPS) Cluster to provide daily updates on the country’s security situation until law and order is restored. The President must provide leadership during this crisis and ensure that the nation is kept informed. The JCPS is headlined by the Departments of Police, Home Affairs, Justice and Correctional Services, and Defence and Military Veterans, which along with the National Joints Operational and Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS) is best placed to keep the nation and world abreast of the unfolding social disorder and operations to restore the rule of law. The past few weeks have been characterised by looting and violence across provinces, with rolling protests, xenophobic attacks and aggressive civil unrest which have thus far resulted in the death of 5 people. Trucks are being set alight nationally, there is continued looting in central business districts and gender-based violence appears to be at an all-time high. It is clear that we are not dealing with a normal situation, therefore government and its leaders cannot go on as if it is business as usual. With several African states withdrawing their participation from the South African hosted World Economic Forum (WEF), and the fellow African Heads of State voicing the security concerns of expats, South Africa and the world need daily assurances that indeed we have a President and Government that is in charge and able to restore law and order. We cannot ignore the glaring fact that the collapse of social order is, to a large extent, the outcome of an economic collapse. If we do not fix our broken economy; we will not be able to fix our broken society. With over 10 million South Africans already unemployed, we cannot risk further retrenchments or the closure of businesses. It is time the Government acts against the violent attacks on women, children, and the economy across the country which are compromising stability, the flow of goods and ultimately jobs. The JCPS Cluster must keep citizens and the world informed of all developments relating to this unrest, and ultimately keep all people within the country’s borders safe. The DA once again calls on the public not to take matters into their own hands, report incidents to law enforcement authorities and for the authorities to act.