“If we want to build a modern, resilient country that is able to adapt to the challenges of our fast-changing world, then we have to make sure we remain future-focused!” – DA Leader, Mmusi Maimane Here are five ways that DA governments, across the length and breadth of South Africa, are meeting the challenges of the 21st-century head-on:   In the small town of Jeffrey’s Bay in the beautiful Eastern Cape, the DA-run municipality of Kouga has officially started work on Africa’s first-ever plastic road. “Non-recyclable plastic waste, which ends up in the ocean or clogging up landfill sites, is processed into pellets and used to replace a large component of the bitumen in a conventional asphalt mix.”  –  Vicky Knoetze, DA Eastern Cape MPL Water is the number one cause of potholes on regular roads. The plastic road is therefore said to be stronger and more durable, as it is more difficult for water to penetrate the surface.   The DA-led City of Johannesburg’s Housing department recently won a Sustainable Cities and Human Settlements Award at the United Nations 14th Annual Session of the Global Forum on Human Settlements. The award was won for the City’s South Hills mixed-income housing development, a housing development praised as a “global green model community“. The South Hills development will yield 6 204 units, with 408 already completed.   The DA-run Stellenbosch municipality recently launched a housing app to increase accessibility and access to the housing database for all residents. The app is not only a first for Stellenbosch but is one of the first-ever municipal applications in South Africa. There are currently over 16,300 applicants currently registered on Stellenbosch’s housing database, but the information of many applicants is incomplete or out-dated. The app will allow residents to update their information, and create a secure profile that can be used to complete an application. “Our new housing app and the implementation of our housing demand database will allow us to keep accurate records and plan according to the needs of our residents.” –  Stellenbosch Mayor, Gesie van Deventer  Thanks to a partnership between the DA-run Western Cape government and private donors, a state-of-the-art, world-class Primary School in has officially opened in rural Worcester. Botha’s Halte Primary places an emphasis on e-learning, demonstrating how 21st-century technology can be used to reach and contribute to quality education in rural and outlying areas of South Africa. Digital technologies are changing the way learners are educated. The school has already become an educational hub for the district and through digital teaching, seamlessly links with other teaching institutions such as the University of Stellenbosch. For the last 18 months, the DA-run City of Cape Town has embarked on an innovative project to tackle harmful methane emissions from the City’s landfills.   By safely trapping the methane gas pockets produced by decaying rubbish in the landfill and then burning the gas to eliminate it. The City will now be embarking on phase two of the project that will see the harmful methane gas used as a heating fuel in industry, to generate electricity or as a fuel for vehicles. This initiative will be a useful case study for all other local governments across South Africa, with other DA governments, in particular, focused on fighting greenhouse emissions. If you enjoyed this article and would like to see more if this kind of content, please consider sharing it on your social media platforms with your friends and family.