The DA calls on National Assembly Chair of Chairs, Cedric Frolick, to budget and plan for an extensive public participation process for the National Health Insurance Bill in the next coming weeks. The Bill is now before Parliament to deliberate on and take into account public inputs before the clause by clause analysis of the legislation. This Bill, which will see the nationalization and over-centralization of the health system, has far-reaching consequences for each and every South African. That is why it is critical that the public participation process sees every entity, interest group, civil society and ordinary citizens make inputs into the legislative process. The NHI Bill is riddled with problematic elements and has gaping loop holes which are yet to be answered and resolved. These include: South Africa needs Universal Healthcare. The system in place needs to reform and bridge the unsustainable levels of inequality in the country. However, there are sustainable ways to go about this which require a fiscally responsible approach. That is why the DA has proposed an alternative to NHI, the Sizani Universal Healthcare system. This approach would rollout universal healthcare within the current budget envelope; invest and improve the public health system so that people are at the center of any reform; implement a subsidy which would afford every South African access to the very best of both public and private facilities; retain the current healthcare workers in our public and private health industries and not establish another State Owned Enterprise which will be prone to corruption. The DA calls on all South Africans to make their voices heard. We cannot allow the ANC government to plunge the health system into the same destructive path that all public entities have been on in the country. In aid of this process, the DA has created a platform on which South Africans can make their submissions and lodge their objections which will be handed over to Parliament. This petition can be accessed on: https://www.stopthenhi.co.za/ The DA will not be deterred in our fight against this destructive Bill. South Africans must join the fight and be afforded the opportunity to engage with Parliament on this piece of legislation in all 9 provinces. The future of the South African health system and indeed the economy relies on our ability to stop the NHI Bill in its tracks.