Today’s briefing by current Gauteng Premier, David Makhura, showed yet again how desperate the failing ANC is to mislead and confuse the public. The ANC are the ones who are leading a programme of violence and civil unrest, and in so doing abusing the legitimate concerns and needs of Alex residents. In a sea of misdirection, Makhura nonetheless made an interesting admission: the former ANC administration stole the R1.7 billion allocated to the Alex Renewal Project. Makhura stated that a full audit into the stolen Alex Renewal Project will be conducted. The project announced in 2001 by former President Thabo Mbeki, never fully got off the ground, yet the billions allocated for development in Alex were never accounted for. Presumably, these funds meant for the people of Alex ended up in the pockets of ANC politicians, who were rejected by the people of Johannesburg in 2016. The Democratic Alliance (DA) has long called for accountability for these stolen funds and presented evidence but this has fallen on deaf ears. Now that the ANC no longer governs Johannesburg and faces losing Gauteng, they have resorted to a coordinated programme of anarchy and criminality in Alex, which has backfired, with the people of South Africa seeing through the lies and deception of the ANC. President Cyril Ramaphosa and Premier Makhura have done nothing but watch as their members criminalise and hijack the community of Alex for their own narrow political means, all while the people suffer. Mayor Herman Mashaba has always stood with the people Alex. In a bid to clean up Alex, Mayor Mashaba launched the #AReSebesteng clean-up campaign in Alex. Further to this, millions of rands have been directed to build a place of hope and pride, within the limited mandate of local government. Mashaba is doing what the ANC failed to do. In under three years, the Mashaba administration has invested in the service delivery development of Alex, through the: We will always put the people we serve first and will not be distracted by liars and looters set on breaking South Africa. It is now clear more than ever that these protests have little to do with the real service delivery issues that the people of Alex face, however, a politically motivated strategy by the ANC. Mayor Herman Mashaba will be meeting with the councillors of Alex on Friday and then present the IDP and substantive plans for Alex on Monday the 15th of April. The people of Alex do not deserve any more empty promises. This will prove to the people what this DA-led coalition government has done and what is planned for this community. The DA is committed to Building One South Africa for All and accelerates the delivery of basic services across the country where we govern.