Pictures can be downloaded here, here, here and here.  The Democratic Alliance (DA) is encouraged by the overwhelming support we have noted at voting stations across the world, as over 29 000 South Africans make their way down to voting stations for an opportunity to cast their vote in one of the most important elections in our country’s history since 1994. From London to Fiji; from Dubai to Ghana, South Africans abroad are marking Freedom Day by voting for change. Today, people are voting for the friends and family they still care about, and for the country they call home – because South Africa remains in the hearts of many, regardless of where they find themselves in the world. It has been made clear by people across the world that they want to elect a government led by the only party in South Africa that has a plan to build One South Africa for All by stopping corruption, speeding up the delivery of services, creating an honest police service, fair access to jobs and secure borders. The DA has made every effort to ensure all South Africans living abroad have easy access to a voting station near them. Most overseas voting stations will be open from 07:00 – 19:00, although some foreign missions have indicated that they will have extended voting hours. Those that we are aware of include: For those that are yet to cast their vote, we would like to remind them to have the following documents with them when travelling to their local ballot boxes: We would also like to remind all voters abroad that if you have any issues today, to please escalate it to us immediately via WhatsApp on +27840002019 and we will address the matter with the IEC and DIRCO. Only the DA is strong enough to beat the ANC, and now is the time to make it happen with votes from across the world. We thank our supporters and members who refuse to allow the failing ANC to continue to pillage our country and its people. Today, on Freedom Day, we celebrate the first step in achieving Tata Madiba’s dream of building One South Africa for All, by voting for the DA, regardless of where we are in the world.