The powerless president of the ANC, Cyril Ramaphosa, this afternoon endorsed the ANC-fuelled #AlexTotalShutdown, confirming that the scenes of anarchy in Alex, Hammanskraal and the looming anarchy in Midvaal have been coordinated and created by Luthuli House with the blessing of Ramphosa. Ramaphosa can no longer distance himself from ANC thugs who burn tyres, block roads and destroy public property. Ramaphosa cannot isolate himself from thugs who violently disrupted the Sandton launch of Pieter-Louis Myburgh’s Gangster State. Ramaphosa is the criminal ANC, and the criminal ANC is Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa’s so-called “principled allies” include David Mabuza, Ace Magashule, Nomvula Mokonyane, Malusi Gigaba and Jacob Zuma. There is no New Dawn. Today, the Leader of the Democratic Alliance (DA), Mmusi Maimane, called for an urgent meeting with the National Police Commissioner, Khehla Sitole, to establish what plans are in place to put an end to the ANC-fuelled anarchy and to restore law and order in our communities. Fikile Mbalula and Ramaphosa must be the first to be questioned about the ANC’s campaign of anarchy. It is convenient that Ramaphosa manufactures a sense of urgency in objectively well-governed DA governments but is nowhere to be found in corrupt and collapsed ANC municipalities like Emfuleni, Makhanda, Ekurhuleni, Mogale City and Kimberley. The DA will today write to Rhamaposa listing all the municipalities he should now visit, given the precedent he has set with Alexandra. These are bankrupt, broken and dysfunctional towns and cities that oppress citizens through ANC mismanagement and corruption. The ANC-fuelled anarchy has targeted DA-led governments, where the people have seen and experienced the accelerated delivery of services. Ramaphosa’s endorsement of thuggery makes him no different to the thugs who burn tyres and intimidate communities in the name of the ANC programme of anarchy. Ramphosa has shown his true colours, as a man devoid of integrity and is someone who the late President Nelson Mandela would never associate with. On 8 May, the people have two choices – Ramaphosa the lying Bosasa beneficiary, or Maimane a man of integrity who always puts the people first.