Revelations that President Ramaphosa’s son, Andile Ramaphosa, is in business with a Chinese energy company that attempted to secure a R400 million kickback from an Eskom loan in January last year is the latest chapter in the Ramaphosa family’s dodgy business dealings. It appears that Cyril Ramaphosa has been using his access to vital information to unduly benefit his son –  which is a clear conflict of interest. The Executive Ethics Code requires the President to disclose the particulars of all his financial interests to the Secretary of Cabinet, Dr Cassius Lubisi, once a year. This includes all shares and interests in corporate companies, sponsorships, gifts and donations, hospitality, pension, and foreign travel. We are of the view that this extends to the President’s family’s business dealings, where there appears to be a direct conflict of interest as it pertains to his son. Section 2.3(d) of the Executive Ethics Code states that members of the Executive may not “Use their position or any information entrusted to them, to enrich themselves or improperly benefit any other person.” (Emphasis added) I have therefore today written to the Secretary of Cabinet, Dr Cassius Lubisi, requesting to view the President’s declaration of interests since his election in February 2018. The President’s declaration of interests is a public document. Section 7.5 of the Executive Ethics Code makes it clear that ”Any person has access to the public part of a register during office hours of the secretary concerned.” There is no reason to decline my request. In 2017, I made a similar submission to view former President Zuma’s declaration of interests and I was granted full access. If the President has failed to disclose any conflict of interest as it relates to his son, then the Public Protector must investigate whether he has breached the Executive Ethics Act. From Bosasa to Eskom loan deals, Andile Ramaphosa is unduly benefitting due to the fact that his father happens to be the President. This is no different to former President Jacob Zuma’s son, Duduzane, and his dodgy business dealings that were in part facilitated by his father’s political connections. The truth is there has been no change in the ANC since the election of Cyril Ramaphosa as President. In fact, former President Kgalema Motlanthe said it all: the ANC is in worse shape now under Cyril Ramaphosa than it was before. The people of South Africa deserve a transparent government. The DA will continue to ensure that the Constitution and the rule of law are respected and upheld by all who hold elected office, none more so than the President. Those who fail to do so will be brought to book.