The emergence of pictures of an ANC-branded vehicle loaded with tyres in the Johannesburg inner city once again proves that the failing ANC sits behind the violent protests which has rocked the city and other DA-led municipalities across the country. On Tuesday, a Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) search operation discovered an “ANC branded vehicle which was loaded with old tires […] ANC paraphernalia, branded material as well as delegate accreditation cards of 2 ANC members for the ANC Gauteng List Conference in December 2018”. So brazen is the ANC that it openly parades the materials of which the intended destination is no doubt another ANC-orchestrated violent protest. The Democratic Alliance (DA) welcomes City of Johannesburg Mayor, Herman Mashaba’s decision to seek a meeting with the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) and the Public Protector in regard to the ongoing political protests in his city. For more than 25 years, the ANC has failed to deliver in its promises to the people of Alexandra and other poor communities. Instead of addressing the grievances of the people, they incite violence and anarchy on the eve an election. The dirty tricks employed the ANC is not just carried out by a few rogue elements, it’s clearly a campaigning directive issued and orchestrated by its Top Six and Campaigns Head, Fikile Mbalula. The ANC does not care about the plight of the people on the ground. They only care about holding onto their declining electoral prospects and looting the public coffers. The governing party, emboldened by its president, Cyril Ramaphosa, shamelessly hijacked the genuine concerns of residents across the country to orchestrate violent and anarchic protests in DA-led municipalities. The DA will not quiver in the wake of the ANC’s destruction, in the absence of any leadership from the ANC and their president, the DA Leader Mmusi Maimane has requested an urgent meeting with both the National Police Commissioner, General Khehla Sitole, and the IEC Chairperson, Mr Glen Mashinini. Further to this, Maimane has written to the Speaker of the National Assembly, Baleka Mbete, to request an urgent establishment of an Ad Hoc Joint Committee on consisting of the Portfolio Committees on Police, Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, and Home Affairs to get to the bottom of these violent protests. Our sole objective remains to uplift and empower the people of Alexandra and other poor communities. Unlike the ANC, the DA is committed to building One South Africa for All, not destroying the country through violence and devastation.