On Thursday, 18 April 2019, I will be hosting a townhall meeting with Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba and the people of Alexandra so that we can reflect on what has been done since 2016, and what more needs to be done to make Alex into a place to be proud of. In addition to this I extend an invitation to President Cyril Ramaphosa, Gauteng Premier David Makhura and former Mayor Parks Tau to account for the period between 1994 and August 2016. This engagement with the people of Alex will also present an opportunity for all three spheres of government to forge a partnership and commitment to working together in order to put the people first. Above all, we are servants of the people, therefore party politics should be put side so that we can build a broken community. It is most disappointing that the ANC chose to play with the lives and emotions of the people by hijacking and criminalising a community movement. From day one the City of Johannesburg Executive was ready to engage with the community, but ANC Ward Councillors instead chose to fuel fires running a disinformation campaign and spurring the community to engage in criminal acts. On Sunday, 07 April 2019, I will be laying charges against the Ward Councillors we have been identified as the ringleaders of a carefully coordinated campaign to fuel the fires of anarchy in Alex. Further to this, I have written to the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) to probe whether the ANC is indeed in violation of the Electoral Code of Conduct. The harshest sanction that comes with a violation of the Code is being disqualified from contesting the elections. As the DA, in both government and opposition, we are committed to Building One South Africa for All by ensuring that communities like Alex become places of pride, development and production. I trust that Ramaphosa, Makhura and Tau will heed the call by joining me and Mayor Mashaba, a man of action, on 18 April. When the people we commit to serve call, we have a duty to answer and listen