Tomorrow, as we celebrate Freedom Day and appreciate our country’s hard-won democracy, over 29,000 South Africans living abroad will have the opportunity to cast their vote in one of the most important elections in our country’s history since 1994. Tomorrow, we will vote for the friends and family we still care very much for, and for the country we call home because South Africa will always remain in our hearts no matter where we are in the world. Tomorrow, we will have the opportunity elect a government led by the only party in South Africa that has a plan to build One South Africa for All, delivering good, clean governance, an honest police service, fair access to jobs and secure borders. As the DA Abroad, we call on all those who are eligible to vote in the South African General Election to head to their nearest foreign mission on Saturday, 27 April to cast their vote for the DA. We have campaigned hard to ensure better access to voting for those abroad, and while we did get weekend voting, every other request, including more voting stations, have all been rejected by the ANC government with no reason given. This is why it’s important that if you can vote, you make it count! Most overseas voting stations will be open from 07:00 – 19:00, although some foreign missions have indicated that they will have extended voting hours. Those that we are aware of include: Please do check the opening hours of the foreign mission where you intend to vote before you plan your travel to your voting station. Note that you will not be able to vote if you don’t have ALL the following documents: If you have any issues on election day then please escalate it to us immediately via WhatsApp on +27840002019 and we will address the matter with the IEC and DIRCO. We will also have DA Party Agents at as many of the voting station as possible to ensure this election is free and fair, and that your votes arrive safely back in SA to be counted. Please do also share your experiences of the day with us via the WhatsApp number above, or on Twitter using #OneSAForAll. Overseas votes will only count towards the national ballot, and so it’s incredibly important that we cast our vote wisely to provide South Africa with an alternative government that puts the people first. Our country is in crises and a vote for the ANC will only strengthen their mandate on corruption and patronage. Only the DA is strong enough to beat the ANC, and now is the election to make it happen. So, let’s go out and use our power to vote for change that builds One South Africa for All. Go out and vote DA!  Media Advisory Tomorrow, 27 April 2019, DA Abroad Leader Francine Higham will be outside the South African High Commission in London with other DA Abroad colleagues to engage with South Africans casting their vote in the 2019 general election. For interviews please contact her directly on +44 7894958969