Today, the DA Mpumalanga Premier Candidate, Jane Sithole, accompanied by DA Women’s Network Provincial Leader Annerie Weber and DA National Spokesperson, Refiloe Ntsheke, marched to the Nelspruit Police Station to hand over a memorandum to Brigadier P Ngobeni calling for a thorough investigation into a Sex for Jobs case that was reported in July 2018 (case number 283/07/18).  Last year the DA assisted Thandeka Mathebula and Zodwa Thabethe, who marched with us today, to lay criminal charges after they spoke out against a supervisor at Rob Ferreira Hospital who had solicited sexual favours from them in return for getting them jobs at the hospital. Earlier this year, a SAPS official told both women that their case was thrown out of the court based on the act being deemed consensual. Neither Thandeka nor Zodwa were not told anything about the investigation, they were also not told of a court date and whether they should appear in court. Sexual predators who use the promise of employment, promotion or better working conditions as a tool to strip women of their dignity must face the full might of the law. At our march today, the DA asked for this case to be reopened and for a proper investigation to be conducted. It is unacceptable that this case is seemingly being swept under the carpet. The degradation of women seeking unemployment must stop now. Sexual predators who use the promise of employment, promotion or better working conditions as a tool to strip women of their dignity must face the full might of the law. A DA led national government will launch a commission of inquiry into this widespread practice of sex-for-jobs to protect jobseekers and to restore the dignity of those who have been coerced into performing sexual favours for employment. Mpumalanga and the rest of South Africa needs honest and professional police in order efficiently handle case like case number 283/07/18 because when cases of this nature are bungled or swept under the carpet, perpetrators walk free while women continue to be degraded when seeking employment. The DA will continue to monitor this case until justice for Zodwa and Thandeka has been served.  