The Democratic Alliance (DA)  has written to President Cyril Ramaphosa, to urge him to send the army to assist with the clean-up of the more than 83 ANC-led municipalities which has been classified as “distressed and dysfunctional”. Yesterday, President Ramaphosa visited Alexandra, and in his hubris promised army assistance,  a million houses, tablets and the completion of the Alexandra Renewal Project. This same programme was launched during former president Thabo Mbeki’s tenure from which billions been looted. Ramaphosa’s comments in Alexandra yesterday were merely a political stunt. By now it has been established and confirmed by the ANC and Ramaphosa himself, that the anarchy and criminality in Alex and other DA-run municipalities are manufactured by the ANC. Not only did Ramaphosa confess to this thuggery, he also endorsed it. In his speech, Ramaphosa completely ignored the fact that Alexandra was under ANC control for over 20 years without bringing about any change. Every single province in South Africa run by the ANC has multiple examples of deplorable service delivery, which, if Ramaphosa was sincere, would have treated them with the same focus and determination. The list of municipal failures from each province include: From this we can see that in each and every province, there are municipalities that are struggling under a lack of service delivery from a corrupt and failing ANC. To add to the ANC poor record, all the municipalities officially considered under distress and dysfunctional in ANC controlled municipalities. Surely if Ramaphosa was sincere in his sudden quest to deploy the army to Alexandra he would respond with the same enthusiastic pace to these pressing need for intervention in these communities. The fact remains that the ANC has instigated violence, chaos and anarchy to cling onto its dwindling electoral prospects in Gauteng. The people in these communities have genuine concerns and the failing ANC has hijacked their plights for political gains because they have no solutions to inspire hope in these communities. The DA will not cower in the wake of the ANC’s campaign of destruction and misinformation. Our priority will always be the people of South Africa and ensuring that they have access to basic services.