Note to Editors: The following remarks were delivered by the DA Gauteng Premier Candidate, Solly Msimanga, infront of the DA Billboard. He was joined by DA Gauteng Provincial Leader, John Moodey, DA Team One Gauteng members and DA activists. We stand here again to call for justice and accountability. Those who killed our people should be in jail, not the Offices of the Premier or MECs. We cannot, in good conscience, allow the ANC to get away with killing our people.  As the Premier of Gauteng, I will commit to putting the people first, every day and every hour of my term in office. I stand here to declare to the people of Gauteng that as Premier of Gauteng the first item on the agenda will be to ensure that the 144 families who lost loved ones to the Life Esidimeni massacre are fully compensated. It is the least that can be done for families who have suffered a loss at the hand of an uncaring government Why must our people suffer further at the hands of this uncaring ANC government? This sordid chapter should have long been closed, instead our people are sent from pillar to post to get what is owed to them by a government that has caused them so much pain and suffering. This will not happen on my watch as Premier of Gauteng. The DA is committed to ensuring that justice prevails. No stone must go unturned until those with blood on their hands are in orange overalls. We cannot allow the ANC to get away with killing our people! Not on my watch. I am committed to building a just and fair society, where the most vulnerable amongst us a cared for by the government. This is my pledge to you, the people of Gauteng. Twenty-five years ago, South Africans stood together to reject a murderous and callous apartheid regime that put self-interest ahead of building One South Africa for All. We stood together, with the promise of building One South Africa for All where the people come first; where the most vulnerable among us are taken care of. We chose life over death and murder. The snaking voting queues, where young and old; rich and poor; black and white, stood side-by-side represented hope for a better tomorrow that ensured that the lives of our people are treated with dignity. Never did we expect that a so-called government of the people would mobilise a militarised police force to gun down breadwinners, whose only cry was for a wage that enabled food to be put on the table and children to go to school. Never did we believe that our children would be left to drown in pit latrines because an uncaring government chose to ignore the plight of rural communities. As a father, I do not believe I would recover if such an avoidable tragedy were to hit me and my wife. Never did the people of Gauteng and South Africa vote for a government that would kill 144 mental health patients whose lives were placed in the care of the state. As we stand here today, 21 families still do not know where their loved ones are. As we stand here today, the failing ANC government of David Makhura has not fully compensated the families whose lives were lost at the hands of a failing government. The uncaring ANC deliberately sent 144 people to die. They cannot claim to have not known, because the DA and Jack Bloom warned them on 30 November 2015. Honourable Bloom said the following in the Gauteng Provincial Legislature: “The department has made a colossal mistake in cancelling the contract with Life Healthcare Esidimeni for about 2000 psychiatric patients.”  It is clear that the Life Esidimeni factor could have been avoided if the uncaring ANC         government had listened. Honourable Bloom went on further to say: “It’s a looming disaster. Does the Honourable MEC really want hundreds of people on the streets or with families who cannot care for them?” The uncaring ANC and Makhura did not listen. My Colleague, Honourable Bloom, then made a final plea: “Please, please reconsider.” This fell on deaf ears. Makhura and the ANC did not listen. The ANC sent 144 people to an early grave. We cannot allow those with blood on their hands to claim the moral high ground. Not on my watch will a government kill its people. Not on my watch will the people of Gauteng suffer. I am committed to serving the people. With the right leadership, Gauteng can truly be a place of hope and promise. Gauteng can become a place where indeed “motho ke motho ka batho babang”. The people of Gauteng deserve real change that puts them first. My government, in service of the people will ensure that our people are able to access job opportunities so that they do not depend on the state. As Premier, I will work to build an honest and professional service that keeps our people safe and restores order, so criminals do not terrorise our communities or occupy high office. I am committed to speeding up the delivery of quality of services, so that our clinics and hospitals are places of healing; so that every tap has water and every home has electricity. Not on my watch will the government kill its people. Only when we vote for real change can we ensure that a massacre like Life Esidimeni never again befalls the people of Gauteng. This weekend the people of Gauteng and South Africa have the opportunity to start the process of ushering real change by registering to vote in the 2019 General Elections. The power build One South Africa for All is in the hands of every registered voter. The people of Gauteng have two choices in this critical election: vote for an ANC government that kills its people; or vote for a DA government that puts the people and their needs first.  