The Democratic Alliance (DA) is truly humbled and thanks the voters of City of Cape Town, Ward 31, and Bergrivier, Ward 5 for entrusting the DA with their vote. We are delighted by the victory in these by-elections, where the party retained Ward 31 in the City of Cape Town as well as winning Ward 5 in Bergrivier from the ANC in highly contested by-elections. We also thank the residents of Ward 101 who helped us retain our voting percentage in that ward. I am confident that Theresa Tompson from the City of Cape Town and Adam (Ampie) van Wyk from Bergrivier will represent their communities with pride and fight for better services for the people. Tompson and Van Wyk understand the struggles of the people and will ensure that the people always come first. The DA is working hard in every community to bring our message of building One South Africa For All to every corner of the country. Yesterday in the City of Cape Town and in Bergrivier the people, through their vote, showed us that they still believe in our cause and support our efforts. Now, more than ever we need change that will build our nation. The people of Ward 31 are happy that the poorly performing councillor resigned and that this victory presents us with an opportunity to put our best foot forward, clean up the mess that was left behind and bring back services to the people. In Bergrivier, the people gave us another chance as the previous ANC councillor failed dismally to address the many needs of this community. We do not take this victory lightly. We carry the democratic mandate of the people, which we have a duty to use to better the lives of the people. We will continue to put all South Africans first by ensuring that people receive service delivery that is worthy. We encourage all voters to register for the upcoming national and provincial elections during the IEC Registration weekend on 26 and 27 January 2019. It is crucial that all South African citizens of voting age ensure that they are correctly registered to vote. The DA values every single voter. We remain committed to bringing the change that will build One South Africa for All.