While the ANC’s failing Department of Basic Education celebrates a misleading matric pass rate, the Democratic Alliance (DA) has further scrutinised matric results data and found the schools which have seen a dramatic drop in pass rate between 2016 and 2018. We cannot simply celebrate this year’s matric results without scrutinising the failures of the ANC’s education system. The ten schools with the greatest drop in pass rate are: Prov It is tragic to see that schools which previously had an excellent pass rate, now have pass rates of below 40% and are categorised as underperforming. The blame for this decay falls squarely at the feet of Minister Angie Motshekga and the Education MEC’s who are clearly incapable of addressing the serious challenges crippling underperforming schools. The DA will write to the Chairperson of Parliament’s Basic Education Committee to request an urgent meeting, when Parliament reconvenes, with Minister Motshekga and the Education MEC’s of Limpopo, Mpumalanga, North West, KwaZulu-Natal, Free State and Eastern Cape to demand answers. The DA will also be conducting oversight inspections of these declining schools across the country to find out what resources and support they are being denied by the failing ANC. The ANC’s continuous parade of its dismal educational track record is nothing more than a smokescreen and a slap in the face of the pupils at these declining schools, who have become the biggest victims of a rotten education system. The Minister has been very concerned with her ‘legacy’ this year. Motshekga’s legacy is an education system teetering on the brink of collapse and thousands of forgotten learners stuck in an endless loop of repeating grades, or worse, dropping out of the system completely. Poor quality education systems sabotage young South Africans’ chances of finding good jobs and studying further. Without a solid basic education, South Africa’s youth will struggle to break free from the cycle of poverty which the ANC has trapped them in.