Today the DA Western Cape Premier Candidate, Alan Winde engaged with members of the Rail Enforcement Unit that was introduced by the DA-led City of Cape Town, in partnership with the Western Cape Government and PRASA last year. He was joined by the DA Team One South Africa Spokesperson on Crime, John Steenhuisen, the DA National Spokesperson, Solly Malatsi and City of Cape Town Mayco Member for Safety and Security, JP Smith.  Please click here for an Afrikaans soundbite and here for an English soundbite by the DA Western Cape Premier Candidate, Alan Winde. Please click here for an isiXhosa soundbite by the DA National Spokesperson, Solly Malatsi. The the Rail Enforcement Unit (REU) was introduced in reaction to the general breakdown in security on our trains. Metrorail accounts for more than 40% of public transport market share with 650 000 passenger trips per day and it is unacceptable that our people have to be fearful every time that they board a train. The people of Cape Town deserve a safe and reliable public transport system. Rail should be commuters’ mode of choice because commuting by rail is more affordable, and it’s the most efficient mode of transport when operating optimally. While it is in fact outside of the legislated jurisdiction of local/provincial government, our introduction of this unit practically illustrates the DA’s commitment to fixing the broken railway system. Where the DA governs, we get things done. Until now the unit has had several successes, including 36 arrests on a range of charges, the confiscation of 380 meters of cable and 800 kg of signal cable and the confiscation of contraband. It is important to note, though, that while this is a great initiative in the long term a Rail Safety Unit run by the South African Police force should be re-established to secure the entire rail system. For far too long, the plight of commuters has been ignored. PRASA, he Department and the Minister of Transport must account for their lack of action to improve safety for commuter and drivers alike. That is why tomorrow, the DA will picket at the PRASA Headquarters in Tshwane and hand over a memorandum that will include a call for the implementation of an emergency safety plan on our railways and the modernisation of rail infrastructure. The DA is a party that the gets stuff done. Where we govern, we keep our promises and we deliver for all. We have an agenda for change that will get us to the dream of One South Africa for All. Please click here and here to download pictures.