The following speech was delivered in Parliament today. The year 2019 – what a year, I think we can all agree that half of the year was spent by us saying “Woah, what was that?” and the rest of the year flew by so fast that it’s hard to believe that here we are, the end of the Parliamentary term, the end of the year, and most astoundingly, at the end of the decade. It has been a year of many changes, we had two SONA’s in one year because of the general election.  We said goodbye to friends and colleagues, we welcomed new friends and colleagues. We collectively were glued to TV screens as we watched the Zondo Commission go about its business – sometimes confirming what we already knew, sometimes, shocking our socks off. 2019 also introduced Parliament to a new foodie – a new chef if you will amongst us.  It was with great delight that Twitter would wait for the latest edition of cooking with Tito.  My personal favorite tweet included the quote “cooking needs time, it’s like drawing up the National budget.  Time and Patience!” Step by step, I learned how to cook the perfect beef stew with lots of garlic, thank you to the Minister for this extra addition to my repertoire. The 5th of September saw an unprecedented group of South Africans march peacefully to Parliament to highlight the plight of women and children in South Africa.  Gender based violence remains a source of terror and embarrassment to our country.  It was a source of great pride that organisations like Fight Back SA were started by young women such as Ms Nicole Mirkin who seek to teach women how to defend themselves and keep each other safe.  Together we continue to ensure that this terror remains a focus and that we fight for the safety of women and children with all our might. This year also saw the HAWKS starting to swoop down on some of those who have been accused of executing State Capture.  A member of this very house was finally arrested, released on bail and will appear in court in April 2020.  I will not lie and must say I look forward to not seeing him in this house any longer.  For me, it was definitely my early Christmas present. The Rules committee of Parliament has had a busy and productive period.  New rules have been drafted and passed that will allow members to remove office bearers of Chapter 9 institutions.  We also through learning the hard way have moved the members statements section back u t the rightful place at the beginning of the program. A highlight of the year, not only for Parliament, but the whole country was the tremendous win of our Springbok team in the Rugby World Cup.  It was with absolute delight that members of Parliament welcomed the champions of the World to the Parliamentary precinct and gave them the hero’s welcome they so richly deserved.  At a time when our country required unity the most, our boys in green and gold gave us all a master class in nation building and sportsmanship. The older I get, the more I realise that the only constant in life is change.  I most certainly did not think that I would be standing here today delivering the DA’s 2019 farewell speech, but there you have it.  Please allow me the opportunity to congratulate the new Leader of the Democratic Alliance Mr John Steenhuisen on his election.  He has served Parliament as the Chief Whip of the Opposition for just under six years. His manner, his style, his wit and his knowledge is simply unmatched.  On behalf of the DA we thank him for all he did for us as Chief Whip and wish him tremendous success in his new role as Leader. And so the time has finally come for us to break for the end of the year.  Allow me to thank each one of the chief whips from various political parties for their understanding, comradery, friendship and help as I look on my new role,  Thank you to the ANC Chief Whip and Deputy Chief for all the chats and meetings as I find my feet and navigate this job in my style. Your kindness has been overwhelming. To the DA whips – You are spectacular and I am still trying to figure out what I did right in life to deserve the honour to lead a team like you all. Members, be blessed, be happy, be safe, rest, spend time with friends and family and let us meet again in 2020. I have a very wise counsel in my older sister Maria.  Allow me to conclude today by reading you a message that she sent to me when she learnt I had become the Chief Whip of the DA. ​The devil will whisper in your ear ​​“You can’t handle the storm” ​Answer him “I am the storm” ​Happy holidays and God Bless you all. 