Today, alongside the Western Cape Premier, and the Acting Mayors of Cape Town and Tshwane, I engaged a wide range of small business owners and entrepreneurs here in the Cape Town CBD who have been adversely affected by continuous rolling blackouts imposed on them by the beleaguered Eskom. From café’s and coffee shops, to tech start-ups and tourism hubs, those who have taken the risk of starting a small business are being hit the hardest by what can only be described as a material failure of governance by the ANC National Government. Rolling blackouts are not merely a simple inconvenience, they are an assault on the livelihoods of business owners and their employees. When the power goes out our entire economy switches off – putting us on the back foot in an extremely competitive international economy. Most small businesses operate on tight profit margins and often have no spare capital to cushion them against unforeseen losses. For them, power cuts mean an inability to pay staff, suppliers, rent and other operational costs. Many small businesses and entrepreneurs operate on the brink of closure, and on the brink of threatening the livelihoods and incomes of dozens of employees. This is why decisive action is urgently required to begin reforming our country’s energy sector. The authority and mandate to do so lies with National Government and their dithering, dodging and indecision cannot continue a day longer. In this light, I welcome President Ramaphosa’s decision to return home from his trip to Egypt in order to address this unfolding crisis after sustained pressure from the DA. Now that he’s back he must urgently address Parliament on the matter, and the Speaker of the National Assembly, Thandi Modise, has a duty to ensure this happens. Now is not the time for MPs to be sipping cocktails on the beach – they ought to be doing their jobs in finding solutions to SA’s energy crisis. The call for Parliament to reconvene is further justified by the President’s underwhelming media briefing yesterday, in which he once again failed to provide the necessary leadership in chartering a clear way forward. A once again “surprised and shocked” Ramaphosa stated that: While this may provide some limited reprieve in the short term, it fails to address the root causes of insecure energy supply. We cannot be putting band-aids on bullet wounds. Since 2014, President Ramaphosa has been in charge of turning around Eskom’s fortunes and yet he still has no grasp of the magnitude of the crisis, and the reform that is urgently required. That is why today we set out six steps National Government could immediately pursue in order to reform our energy sector and tackle head-on the systemic issues that continue to undermine our economy and the livelihoods of millions of South Africans. In order to mitigate against the consequences of rolling blackouts, the DA-led Western Cape, City of Cape Town, and City of Tshwane governments are in the process of formulating and implementing disaster management plans. Essential services such as bulk water supply, sanitation services and clinics must be adequately managed, and all risks mitigated against. Despite burdensome restrictions by National Government, DA-led governments are innovating in the following ways: South Africa is fast running out of time to reform our energy sector, and in turn ensure a stable and affordable supply of uninterrupted energy that will attract investment, spur on economic growth and create much needed new jobs. Now is the time for action!