The following statement was delivered at a media briefing at Rand Stadium ahead of the Democratic Alliance’s (DA) manifesto launch on Saturday, 23 February 2019. The media briefing was addressed by DA Gauteng Provincial Leader, John Moodey, DA National Spokesperson, Solly Malatsi, DA Executive Director of Communications, Siviwe Gwarube, and DA Director of Communications, Mabine Seabe. On Saturday, all roads lead to Rand Stadium, where DA Federal Leader Mmusi Maimane will address over 20 000 Democrats at the stadium and millions of South Africans at home and abroad. The DA’s message will be clear – we are the only party that can bring real Change that Builds One South Africa for All. Because policy does not exist in a vacuum, the Manifesto for Change is the culmination of an extensive consultation process with the people of South Africa, through Premier Candidate Listening Tours, structures of the Party at all levels – from branches to Federal Council. We also drew from our 13 years of governance experience at Local and Provincial levels, where we govern for, and on a daily basis positively change the lives of 15  million people, across 34 jurisdictions in the Western Cape, Gauteng, Eastern Cape and Limpopo. We have the best governance record, where jobs are created, corruption is stopped and services are improved. We are the only party to grow in every democratic election cycle, and we are confident that we will continue in this direction. Our Manifesto for Change is not just words on paper, it is a practical programme of action, which outlines the change we will bring after the 2019 General Elections and the change we have brought over the last 13 years in government. By an objective measure the DA is a party that stops corruption, attracts investment to create jobs and delivers quality services to and for all South Africans. In short life is better under a DA-led government; we are a party of commitments not empty promises. Governing cannot be a selfish task left to liars and looters at Luthuli House, whose only interest is advancing their own goals. As the DA we are guided by the Constitution of the country which, through the preamble sates: We, the people of South Africa, Recognise the injustices of our past; Honour those who suffered for justice and freedom in our land; Respect those who have worked to build and develop our country; and Believe that South Africa belongs to all who live in it, united in our diversity. The DA’s Manifesto for Change will touch on all areas of society the economy, jobs, the public service, education, healthcare, issues facing women, land, economic and structural redress, the arts, science and technology, and SOEs. We have thoroughly researched these areas, and built upon already existing policies. While the Manifesto gives direction and paints a clear picture of what the country looks like under a DA-led government; since September 2018 we have been campaigning on five key areas: These policy offerings and our message of Change that Builds One South Africa for All have been well received across the country. Federal Leadership, Premier Candidates, Public Representatives and Activist interact with at least 20,000 South Africans on daily basis. We are party at work. It is both symbolic and significant that this rally and manifesto launch takes place at the Rand Stadium. The last time we were here was on 23 April 2016 ahead of the 2016 Local Government Elections. Today, we sit here as a party with a mandate to govern in Johannesburg, Tshwane and with the goal of governing in Gauteng and the Northern Cape, while retaining the Western Cape. In Gauteng we already govern in Midvaal, Tshwane and Johannesburg, showing that change is indeed possible. Our members and supporters in Gauteng will fill this stadium, and we look forward to also welcoming our Activists from Limpopo, Free State, Mpumalanga and the North West, where we have been mobilising. We are certain that we fill the stadium, so much so that we have made provision for an overflow area. All our Premier Candidates and Provincial Leaders will be here, with the exception of the Free State. On behalf of the DA, I convey our condolences to Free State Provincial Leader, Patricia Kopane who lost her husband during the week. Members of the Federal Executive and Federal Council who have endorsed the Manifesto will be present. Gauteng will be blue. Saturday will be electrifying and a show of democratic unity and our values of Freedom, Fairness, Opportunity and Diversity. The gates will open at 08h00 and there will be a line up of entertainers, namely Emo Adams, KidX, Soweto’s Finest, Moonchild Sanelly, Kurt Darren, Riky Rick, Afrikan Rootz, and TDK Macasette. The official programme will kick off at 10h00, and we except the Federal Leader, Mmusi Maimane, to take to the podium no later 12h50. Bringing this rally and the manifesto together has been a massive task, requiring both the political and administrative structures of the party to work day and night. The technical teams have worked for sevens days to ensure that the stadium not only looks good but is safe. We have accredited over 200 media personnel – journalists, photographers, camera operators, technical teams and analysts. This is by far the largest contingent at any DA rally. It is all systems go for Saturday, where the country will hear our vision for bringing Change that Builds One South Africa for All. The change we deliver will happen from day one.