Note to Editors: The following statement was read out at Nkululeko House by the DA’s Candidate for Tshwane Mayor, Stevens Mokgalapa. He was joined by DA Gauteng Provincial Chairperson, Mike Moriarty, and DA North Gauteng Regional Chairperson, Abel Tau. I am proud to accept the DA’s nomination as the mayoral candidate for the City of Tshwane. After extensive internal processes and interviews to find a suitable replacement for the position of Executive Mayor of the City of Tshwane, I am honoured to be the Democratic Alliances’ candidate to carry on the good work done by mayor Msimanga, should I be elected by council. I will carry on with the hard work of rebuilding the City and delivering on our manifesto commitments. My priority will be to carry on the DA’s positive vision to create an environment that allows job creation, deliver better services, and eliminate corruption. My main priority will be to continue the good work of stabilising the city administration in order to deliver better services to all residents. Much has been done in this regard, but much more is needed to reverse the rot we inherited in 2016. I will strongly address ongoing matters related to big contracts in the City, such as GladAfrica and the PEU smart meter contract. I will also ensure that senior managers who are legislatively responsible for the running of the city and the functioning of supply chain are held accountable. My unique history and life experience allow me to understand the challenges faced by the city and the required solutions to tackle them.  I was born and raised in Tshwane and have dedicated my entire professional life to serving the people of this beautiful country. I am excited to be given this opportunity to be a candidate for the mayoralty and will continue this service, specifically for the residents of Tshwane. I completed a degree in Political Science and Honours degree in International Relations from the University of Pretoria; I thereafter completed my honours degree at the University of the Western Cape (UWC). Before joining the DA (then known as the Democratic Party) in 1999, I served as a Ward and PR Councillor in the City of Tshwane for nine years. I have also held various positions in the party, I was first appointed as a Regional Executive Member and advanced to Branch Chairperson. I am also actively involved in community development projects as a social welfare organisation coordinator and development advisor. As a Member of Parliament, I served as Shadow Minister of Human Settlements and I am currently the Shadow Minister of International Relations and Co-operations. Given my extensive knowledge of both national and local government, I will be able to continue to lead the DA-led administration in the City of Tshwane and I hope we can rely on the support of council to make this a reality. While much work has been done to turn Tshwane around after decades of ANC mismanagement, we must never forget the people whose lives still need to change drastically. I would like to thank the out-going Executive Mayor, Solly Msimanga for the outstanding job he has done leading Tshwane for the past two and a half years. He started the wheel of change to the lives of the people of Tshwane, a task that was not an easy, but through sheer political will, commitment and dedication, he managed to make massive inroads. His administration most notably; To our coalition partners, we thank you for standing by us and supporting thus far and ask that you continue to support me as we continue to serve the people of Tshwane together. Most importantly I would like to thank the residents of Tshwane for entrusting the DA-led administration with the responsibility of bettering your lives, you can be assured that we will continue to work tirelessly to deliver the change we have promised and also ensure a seamless transition between the out-going and incoming Mayor, should we be able to elect a DA mayor during our council meeting. We hope that the parties represented in council and those who work with us, will not allow Tshwane to be handed back to the ANC and their coalition of corruption. We hope that those parties will continue placing the interests of the people of Tshwane first when the election of a mayor is held.