NThe Democratic Alliance (DA) has written to the Auditor-General, Kimi Makwetu, to request for an urgent audit to be conducted following reports of dodgy dealings at the Department of Arts and Culture under Minister Nathi Mthethwa. Monies from the Department’s Mzansi Golden Economy fund were reportedly allocated without following due processes. Added to the list of questionable deals that have cost the people of South Africa a staggering R100 million, is the alleged allocation of R36 million over three years to choral group, Ladysmith Black Mambazo to teach traditional Zulu songs, dance and to make an album with former president Jacob Zuma. There was also the alleged payment of R20 million to the Indoni SA cultural organization over two years. Minister Mthethwa as well as two senior officials at the Department, Director-General Vusumuzi Mkhize and Chief Director Charles Mabaso, were allegedly part of the decision making process that disregarded fixed guidelines which explicitly sets a R1 million threshold for funding individuals and R2 million for events and tours. Any amounts exceeding these amounts must be approved by a committee. These allegations are damning and cast a massive shadow over Minister Mthethwa’s integrity and is yet another knock to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s rapidly fading new dawn. The South African public needs to know how the public money has been squandered and we urge the A-G to audit the unsolicited funding by the Department’s R340 million budget Mzansi Golden Economy fund, this includes: The DA will not allow the culture of impunity and wasteful expenditure to continue unchallenged. It is for this reason that we have also written to Parliament’s Standing Committee on Public Accounts to ensure that the Minister and his Department answer these allegations brought against them and that they are held to account. The DA will not stand for the wasteful and dodgy spending of public funds, we will ensure that the interest of people South Africa put are ahead of that of individuals. We therefore trust that the A-G and SCOPA will give our requests the consideration it deserves to ensure that those who are implicated are held to account.