It is great to be in KwaDukuza, in the beautiful province of KwaZulu Natal. Every time I visit this province I am reminded of its vast potential and what it could become if it had a government that works for all its people. This happens to be the fifth province I’ve visited over the past four days, and I can tell you this one truth: from the Free State to the North West, from Limpopo to KwaZulu Natal the message from our people is clear – we want change and we want it now! We have had enough of empty promises from a corrupt ANC that continues to fail us. The ANC is finished and totally beyond repair. It is not a matter of if it loses power, but when, with its last kicks of a dying horse diminishing with every Election. In just six days we go to the polls to elect a new government. In that voting booth next Wednesday, we are all faced with a choice. And that choice is between another 5 years of the ANC or change that builds One South Africa for All. Democrats, that choice also faces every single person in this hall and every resident of Stanger. I know that crime is rampant in this community and goes unpunished. You are all forced to live in danger not knowing when the next burglary, high jacking or murder will take place. Surely, 25 years into democracy, our communities should be safe, secure places we can proudly call home. Earlier this morning I visited a family in this community who were victims of a violent home invasion. In January, criminals broke into their home and attempted to steal their belongings. They called the police in KwaDukuza to come protect them, but the police never arrived on the crime scene. They are still waiting. The police never arrived, and still today, the police have not gone to the home and never investigated the crime. Fellow democrats, what is the most heart-breaking part of this family’s ordeal is that the violent housebreaking caused their son to suffer a heart attack and he sadly passed away just two weeks after the incident. I offer my deepest sympathy to the family and this community on their loss. A 38-year-old man lost his life because of crime – a death that could have been avoided if we had a police force that worked. The reality is that under the ANC, crime goes unpunished, and this community knows that all too well. In Stanger, the conviction rate for murder, rape, robbery, hijacking and housebreaking is 1.4% That means that 98.6% of reported crimes go unsolved, and the accused continue to walk our streets. This cannot be, 25 years into our democracy. You see, the example is set from the very top. The ANC’s attitude towards crime is clear – instead of locking criminals up, they’re sent to Parliament and into government positions. President Ramaphosa’s too little too late apology to the nation yesterday over the ANC’s responsibility for stealing South Africa to the tune of over R1.2 trillion may be forgiven, but it will never be forgotten, and citizens must severely punish this ANC crime at the ballot boxes in 6 days. It is also a manipulative and dishonest slap in the face to the people of South Africa for the President to repent for the trillions stolen by the ANC while reappointing criminals onto compromised ANC lists ahead of this month’s new Parliament. Fellow democrats, we have a choice before us on 8 May. We can complain, or we can bring change! For the people of Stanger, that choice is between a corrupt and inefficient police force under the ANC, or an honest and professional police force under the DA. South Africa deserves a government that is prepared to do the hard work in turning SAPS into an honest, professional crime-fighting institution. The DA will recruit only the best and most passionate candidates. We will ensure our detectives and specialist officers are adequately trained, and we will build effective partnerships with communities who know where the criminals live. And we will tackle the scourge of gender-based violence by putting resources towards it. South Africa deserves a government with a plan to reduce crime – a plan which acknowledges that policing decisions should be made at provincial and local level if they are to address issues unique to the region. A plan that calls for a Provincial Police Service that can work closely with Metro Police units, as is the case throughout the world. That is why on 8 May, I need every single one of you to vote for the change that you deserve, and put your “X” next to the DA! Let’s take back our communities and ensure the criminals are locked up, not sent to Parliament and into government.