The following statement was delivered by DA National Spokesperson, Solly Malatsi, DA Campaign Manager, Jonathan Moakes, and DA Executive Director of Communications, Siviwe Gwarube, at the DA Headquarters, Nkululeko House, in Johannesburg. Pictures can be downloaded here, here and here.  Introduction Almost 800 days ago, on 11 March 2017, the Democratic Alliance (DA) Leader, Mmusi Maimane, kicked off the country-wide #Change19 Tour in Atteridgeville, Tshwane. The Tour was a precursor to the launch of our 2019 campaign. The tour saw the DA Leader go across the country engaging with communities about the successes of the 2016 Local Government Elections and the need for more change, so that we can Build One South Africa for All. Today, the DA is not only a Party in opposition but also a party with over a decade of government experience across 33 jurisdictions in Gauteng, Limpopo, Eastern Cape and the Western Cape. Across these local and provincial governments, we deliver quality services to around 15 million South Africans. The success and quality of DA governance was evidenced by think-tank Good Governance Africa’s annual Government Performance Index, which stated of the top 20 municipalities across the country, 15 are led by the DA either outright or through a coalition. Equally, jobs figures show that the DA has against growing national unemployment numbers managed to build local and provincial economies that create real, long-term jobs. Our Manifesto for Change, launched on 23 February 2019 at the Rand Stadium, is not just words on a paper, it’s a workable agenda for change and a commitment to the people of South Africa – a people’s contract Election Campaign This has been the DA’s most well-organised and intense campaign, where 22 priority campaigns were meticulously coordinated and executed. These campaigns were that of the Leader, 9 Premier Candidates and 12 Team One South Africa Campaigners who covered every corner of the country. In addition to the manifesto launch at the Rand Stadium, for the first time we had rallies in all nine provinces, to ensure that our message of Change that Builds One South Africa for All reaches every province and every community. The superstars of this campaign have been our Activists who daily go door-to-door in order to share our message of change. Our Activists have directly interacted with 8 million South Africans in towns, cities and villages. The response to our message of change has been strong and positive, and this bodes well for next Wednesday. Our ground activity has been backed up by a strong and innovative use of social media, the flighting of six campaign adverts, over 1-million posters, hundreds of thousands of phone calls, and millions of SMSes. South African campaigns are evolving, which means the use of new methods and technologies. We are therefore happy to state that in many instances we have run a campaign which out ranks even those of firmly established democracies. Democracy and elections require debate by those contesting the polls. Debates allow politicians to present their position alongside those of their competitors, which further informs the people of South Africa. It was therefore a poor showing by President Ramaphosa who did not have the conviction to represent his party in a debate with the DA Leader. Nonetheless, since 1 March, the DA has taken part in close to 300 debates on all platforms. From debates organised by private organisations and community radio stations to national TV debates. We have been well represented and it provided us with an opportunity to strengthen our position and reach voters with our message of change and policy offerings that will put a job in every home, fight corruption, create an honest and professional police service, secure our borders and speed up the delivery of services. Notably, this is the first time we have run a campaign from outside of the Western Cape operation out of our year-old Nkululeko House here in Johannesburg. The reasoning is two-fold, it is a result of our greater footprint outside of the Western Cape and our intention to govern Gauteng after 8 May. Election Projections We note various polls which have articulated, rightly and wrongly, some projections for the 8 May General Elections. Our internal polling, which has been proven to be accurate, places us on track to achieve our primary targets of growing nationally, retaining the Western Cape, and bringing the ANC below 50% in the Northern Cape and Gauteng. We have put in the hard work to achieve this, and we thank the people of South Africa who will go out and Vote DA on Wednesday. While public interest has focused on Gauteng and the National Election, we are seeing some very interesting trends, namely the dramatic weakening of the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal and the Free State; the DA has made great in-roads in rural Eastern Cape; and our support from black South Africa has improved. This illustrates that the DA’s message of change is not only reaching more South Africans but it also a message that resonates with a growing number of South Africans who are tired of the empty promises and continued corruption from liars and looters. What cannot be discounted is the lived experience of people who now live in DA jurisdictions following the 2016 Local Government Elections. This is exemplified by the Nelson Mandela Bay scenario, where a coalition of corruption worked against the DA. The people of the Bay are calling for us to come back, and we are confident that it will be possible for a DA Mayor to take their place before the next Local Government Elections. Phetogo Rally On Saturday, all roads lead to Dobsonville, Soweto, the home of DA Leader Mmusi Maimane, where 30,000 Democrats will fill the Dobsonville Stadium. The gates will open at 08h00, with Democrats coming from Gauteng, North West, Free State and Limpopo. The DA Leader, Mmusi Maimane will take to the podium at 11h15, this will be preceded by speeches by the party’s Chairperson, Athol Trollip, Youth Leader, Luyolo Mphiti, Gauteng Provincial Leader, John Moodey, and Gauteng Premier Candidate, Solly Msimanga. Democrats will also be entertained TDK Macasette, Riky Rick and Soweto’s Finest. Members of the Federal Executive, Team One South Africa, and Premier Candidates will be in attendance. The activities at Dobsonville Stadium will be amplified with activity in provinces not sending members to the stadium. We are confident that we will paint the Dobsonville Stadium blue. Elections The importance of the 8 May Elections cannot be stressed enough, and the potential it has to either keep South Africa on the same broken path or take us on the path of change. The 2016 elections showed us that change is possible, and we are approaching this election with the same mindset. South Africans are hungry for change and have shown time and time again that they will vote for change when a different path is presented to them – the DA has done exactly that. The DA has despatched Party Agents to the over 22,000 voting stations across the country for the three days of elections – Special Voting on 6 and 7 May, and the official voting day on 8 May. In effort to play our part in ensuring free and fair elections take place, we will be securing the ballot boxes with our own secure tags. This follows lengthy engagement with the IEC and is in line with existing electoral legislation. We are deeply concerned by calls made by communities to boycott or disrupt elections, especially in the hotspots of KwaZulu-Natal and the North West. The greatest form of protest is through the ballot box. Those who have stolen from the people do not care about rocks and tyres, therefore they must be hit where it hurts the most – at the polls! It is all systems go for the DA, and it will be all-hands-on-deck until the final ballot is cast on the evening on 8 May.  We call all registered voters to have their voices heard and vote for change so we can work to forge a new path for South Africa. We are ready to Bring Change that Builds One South Africa for All.