Today the Democratic Alliance (DA) Parliamentary Caucus elected its leadership team for the 6th Parliament. This group represents the experience, diversity and skills of the DA’s new Parliamentary Caucus. The following members have been elected: As the main opposition under DA Leader, Mmusi Maimane, the DA Parliamentary Caucus will work tirelessly to ensure that Parliament, as an arm of the State, effectively and efficiently plays its role in upholding the rule of law, works for the people, and exercises its oversight and accountability authority without fear or favour. When Parliament works, South Africa works. Only through effective oversight can we work to create safer communities, to ensure services are delivered, that governments are corruption-free, and to create a vibrant economy which puts a job in every home. Our job is not to oppose and critique for the sake of it; our role is that of constructive opposition that builds one South Africa for all, underpinned by the values of Freedom, Fairness, Opportunity and Diversity. It will be this fine leadership team that will actively engage with Parliament’s Office-Bearers, led by Speaker Thandi Modise, to ensure that the legislative arm of the State is indeed a place that works for the people. The reality is that South Africa is in trouble. Our economy has stagnated and policy uncertainty means that Parliament must focus on passing legislation that benefits the country and that we vigorously debate the real issues facing South Africans. The floors of the National Assembly and National Council of Province, and the chambers of Committee Rooms should not be used to exchange insults, they must be used to build a better South Africa for all. The DA in Parliament is ready to hit the ground running. In the coming days, the DA Leader will appoint a Shadow Cabinet. We will also table the “Jobs Bill”, push for the establishment of a Standing Committee on the Presidency, establish a “Caucus of the Opposition”, and seek regular engagement with Leader of Government Business. The DA’s takes its role as Official Opposition seriously. We will not only fight for the interests of those who voted for us, but we will continue to work to build One South Africa for All.