Over the past two days, the DA’s Federal
Council (FedCo)– the party’s highest decision-making body in between Federal
Congress – sat to elect a new Federal Council Chairperson, and to consider the
report of the Organisational Review Panel established following the 2019
national and provincial elections. Election of new chairperson of Federal
Council The election of a new Chairperson of Federal
Council presents an opportunity of renewal and change for the DA. The position
was previously occupied by James Selfe, who led FedCo for just under 20 years
with the utmost distinction. I want to again thank James for his leadership,
support and friendship. James is an unsung hero of South Africa’s democratic project
and his valiant work has positively shaped the country we live in. I want to congratulate Helen Zille on her
election as Chairperson of Federal Council, and I look forward to the new
energy, ideas and vigour that Helen will bring to the leadership collective of
the Party. Helen has served the party in various positions over the past years,
and brings experience and political clout second to none Further, I want to call on all the candidates
and members of the party to unite behind the new FedCo Chairperson. The
election and campaigns are over, and now is the time to unite and work for the
people with the future in mind. Resolutions adopted Federal Council considered the Organisational
Review Panel’s report. Following extensive deliberation, Federal Council
adopted the following resolutions. Conclusion The country is currently facing profound
challenges noting the current Eskom rolling blackouts, the 10.2 million South
Africans unemployed due to our collapsing economy, citizens continuing to live
in fear due to the scourge of crime, and lack of access to basic services due
to failing local governments and corruption. These challenges require a
stronger and united DA because when the DA works, South Africa works. We come out of this weekend’s Federal Council
committed and reenergised to building One South Africa for All – accelerating
our work in parliament as the official opposition to offer alternatives to the
governing party and hold the national executive accountable. We further made a
commitment to strengthen and capacitate our governments in their work of
running clean, capable governments that deliver services to all. It is now time to roll up our sleeves, and
work with South Africans from all walks of life towards building a prosperous
South Africa for all.