The Democratic Alliance (DA) is concerned by reports stating that South Africa will have no representation at the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games in the Canoe and Kayak categories. The SA canoe and kayak teams have secured qualification for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, however they might not take any part in the games due to not meeting the higher criteria set by the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (SASCOC) which is higher than that of the International Federation. Team SA found out about their exclusion shortly after arriving home from their victory in Morocco, that even though they legitimately qualified for quotas for South Africa to compete at the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, SASCOC will not allow them to compete. The athletes’ 8-year long commitment of hard training and sacrifice has come to a disappointing end due to SASCOC’s unreasonable and unfair treatment. According to reports, SASCOC indicated that they have the right to alter the international criteria if it is reasonable and fair. They also say that they cannot allow SA athletes to take part in such a prestigious event with the possibility that they can embarrass themselves and the country. The DA will write to the Minister of Sports, Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa, to call on him to urgently intervene on this unacceptable behavior by SASCOC that is stealing away the dream of athletes and young prospective academy athletes of competing at the highest level in sport. The DA have already submitted Parliamentary Questions to the Minister to establish : The opportunity to attend an Olympic Games is massive for South African canoe and kayak teams – it will allow them to compete with the best on the world stage. It would be injurious not to give the athletes an opportunity to compete having sacrificed a better part of 8 years building up to these games. Given that the Athletes have done their best to qualify, we hope that SASCOC will do the right thing as consider them for being part of Team SA. The Democratic Alliance will be keeping a close eye on these developments.